Updating the chipster-microbial repo (CSC internal instructions):

This repository contains the exercises of the microbial community analysis courses with Chipster
(+ some related materials).


1. Access:

Ask an owner for access to the csc-training repo if you are not already a member.


2. Structure of the repo: 

markdown: R markdown files for the exercises 
	MiSeq: MiSeq 16S exercises
	IonTorrent: Ion Torrent 16S exercises

docs: html versions of the same markdown files (can be linked to course participants)
	note: the repo is configured with Github Pages to look for the displayed files in 
	the docs folder in root (this can be changed in Settings)

README.md: determines what is shown on the front page

Getting started with Github Pages that the site is based on:
https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/creating-a-github-pages-site


3. Editing the materials: 

Because the markdown files need to be converted to html, the easiest way is to edit the markdown 
files on your own computer, convert into html and then upload both files to Github (markdown in 
the folder markdown, html in the folder docs). 

3.1 Start with 'git clone [path of the repo]' on your own terminal. Find the path of the repo on 
the front page under Code -> ssh. For this you should have ssh keys set up for git/Github. 
To update an existing repo on your computer, use 'git pull' in the repo directory.

3.2 After cloning, navigate to the repo folder and make a new branch:
cd newrepo
git checkout -b yourbranch

3.3 Make the changes in the R Markdown file on your own computer. Convert the markdown file into html. For example in RStudio, use 'Knit' to create the html. Move the html file to the 'docs' folder.

3.4 Submit the changes to Github:
git add -A
git commit -m "message about what has been changed"
git branch [to double check the branch name for the next command]
git push origin -u yourbranch

-> copy and open the web address from the output, create a pull request in Github, merge. Done!

